---
layout: post
title:  "Graphical Neural Networks: Some Insights from a Data Science Perspective"
date:   2023-06-20 10:45:00 +0200
permalink: GNN-stat-angle
tags: [Data Science]
categories: [data-science]
excerpt: "A Data Science Perspective to Graphical Neural Networks"

---
{% include katex.html %}

# What is Graphical Data

A Graph (V, E) is the type of data structure that contains nodes and edges. 
  - A node can be a person, place, or subject.
  - An edge define the relationship between two nodes. The edges can be directed and undirected based on directional dependencies. 


# How to Model Graphic Data
It is not easy to model and analyze graphical data due to its graph-based data structures 
   -- A graph is in a non-euclidean space. 

   -- Graphs can be dynamic. There can be two visually different graphs, but they might have similar adjacency matrix representations. 

   -- Graphs can be large in terms of size (i.e., number of nodes) and dimensionality (number of edges). It poses great challenges to understand and extract useful information. 

# A Data Science Perspective for Graphical Neural Network

Graph Neural Network (GNN) is a type of neural network to deal with graph data structure. 

   -- GNN, based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), can be used to predict a class label of a graph structure.
   -- GNN, based on Recurrence Neural Networks (RNNs), can be used for text classification where the graph graph structure is with respect to every word to be a node in a sentence.  

There are some limitations of GNN.

 -- GNNs often have two to three layers. 

 -- The dynamic nature of the graph making model training difficult.
 
 -- Scalability issues make the computation expensive

# Summary

